.TH HACHA 1 "2020-11-16"
.\"
.SH NAME
hacha \- split Hevea-generated HTML files
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B hacha
.RI [ OPTION... ] " HTML-FILE"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
Split the Hevea-generated
.I HTML-FILE
at logical boundaries \(en chapters for styles report and book or
sections for style article \(en into separate HTML files while keeping
all cross-references intact and propagating headers, footers,
footnotes, etc. into the sub-files.  Add local table-of-contents if
requested with options
.BR -tocbis " or " -tocter .
.P
The root-output file is
.I index.html
unless superseded by option
.BR \-o .
The dependent HTML filenames are constructed from the input
.IR FILENAME .html
like
.IR FILENAME### .html,
where
.I ###
is a three-digit decimal number.  Hacha writes the style
file
.IR FILENAME .css,
which is valid for all generated HTML pages.
.\" Sort options in alphabetical order!
.\" See the section labeled `hacha' in "text.tex".
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-help
Display a list of all options and exit.
.TP
.B \-hrf
Write a log file called
.I FILENAME.hrf
that shows the association of local anchors to files with one
association per line.  Each line has the format:
.IP
.RS 12
.IR ANCHOR " \(rst " OUTPUT-FILENAME
.RE
.TP
.B \-no\-svg\-arrows
Use GIF arrows for the previous/up/next links in generated pages.  The
default is to use SVG arrows.
.TP
.B \-nolinks
Suppress the previous/up/next links in generated pages.
.TP
.BI \-o " FILENAME"
Redirect Hacha output into
.IR FILENAME .
Without this option Hacha defaults to
.IR index.html .
If
.I FILENAME
is a path, this is, expands to
.IR DIRECTORY/FILENAME ,
all output goes into
.I DIRECTORY
and the root-output file will be called
.IR FILENAME.
.TP
.BI \-rsz " SIZE"
Adjust the
.I SIZE
of leaves in rope implementation.  The default rarely needs changing.
.TP
.B \-tocbis
Duplicate the table of contents at the beginning of each output file.
.TP
.B \-tocter
Same as
.B \-tocbis
but with terser main table-of-contents.  Here the sub-tables will not
appear in the main table.
.TP
.B \-v
Report progress.
.TP
.B \-version
Show Hacha version and library directory.
.\"
.SH NOTES
Hacha is designed for HTML files that are generated by Hevea
.I not
for general HTML files.
.P
The output can be controlled in the LaTeX source document with several
Hevea macros like, for example,
.BR \(rscuttingunit .
See the \(lqTutorial\(rq part of the Hevea documentation for an
in-depth explanation.
.\"
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR esponja (1),
.BR hevea (1).
