.TH HEVEA 1 "2020-11-16"
.\"
.SH NAME
hevea \- convert LaTeX file to HTML
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B hevea
.RI [ OPTION... ] " " [ HVA-FILE... | LATEX-FILE... ]
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.TP
.B Normal Mode
Consult
.IR HVA-FILEs " and " LATEX-FILE s.
The last
.I LATEX-FILE
in the command line is designated main-input file and it is expected
to contain the
.BR \(rsdocumentclass " macro."
All temporary and output filenames are derived from this main-input
filename (unless overridden with option
.BR \-o ).
Translate the main-input file to HTML given the definitions in the
other
.IR HVA-FILE "s and " LATEX-FILE s.
.TP
.B Filter Mode
If the last file on the command line is not a
.I LATEX-FILE
or no file is given at all Hevea operates in filter mode.  It then
consults all
.IR HVA-FILE "s and " LATEX-FILE s
if any are passed on the command line then reads LaTeX-source from
standard input and writes to standard output (unless overridden with
option
.BR \-o ).
.PP
Options
.RB \(oq \-info "\(cq and \(oq" \-text \(cq
change the output format to GNU Info and plain text, respectively.
.\" Sort options in case-insensitive alphabetical order!
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-dv
Add borders to some block-level elements.  This option is mainly
interesting for the Hevea developers.
.TP
.BI \-e " FILENAME"
Exclude
.I FILENAME
from being processed.
.TP
.B \-entities
Render symbols by using entities.  This is the default.
.TP
.BI \-exec " PROGRAM"
Execute external
.IR PROGRAM ,
then read its result.
.TP
.B \-fix
Iterate Hevea until reaching a fixpoint.  This option does not work in
\(lqFilter Mode\(rq.
.TP
.B \-francais
French mode (deprecated).
.TP
.B \-help
Display a list of all options and exit.
.TP
.BI \-I " DIRECTORY"
Prepend
.I DIRECTORY
to search path for input files
.RI ( *.tex ", " *.sty ", and " *.hva ).
.TP
.B \-info
Output GNU Info files.  Note that Hevea unconditionally splits the
output Info files in parts like
.B makeinfo
without the
.B \-\-no\-split
flag!  The default output filename extension is
.I .info
for the root Info file and
.I .info-#
for all leaf-files with
.I #
being a decimal number.
.TP
.B \-mathml
Generate MathML output for equations.  This feature is very
experimental!
.TP
.B \-moreentities
Enable the output of some rare entities.
.TP
.B \-noiso
Deprecated \(en does nothing.
.TP
.B \-O
Call esponja to optimize HTML output for minimal size.
.TP
.BI \-o " FILENAME"
Redirect Hevea output to
.IR FILENAME .
If
.I FILENAME
is a path, this is, expands to
.IR DIRECTORY/FILENAME ,
all output goes into
.I DIRECTORY
and the output file therin will be called
.IR FILENAME.
A single dash
.RB ( \- )
as
.I FILENAME
redirects output to standard output.
.TP
.B \-pedantic
Be pedantic in interpreting the HTML 4.0 transitional definition.
.TP
.BI \-rsz " SIZE"
Adjust the
.I SIZE
of leaves in rope implementation.  The default rarely needs changing.
.TP
.B \-s
Suppress warnings.
.TP
.B \-text
Output plain text.  The default output filename extension is
.IR .txt .
.TP
.B \-textsymbols
Render symbols by English text.
.TP
.B \-v
Verbose flag; repeat to increase verbosity.
.TP
.B \-version
Show Hevea version and library directory.
.TP
.BI \-w " WIDTH"
Set the output
.I WIDTH
for plain text or GNU Info output.  This option has no effect in HTML
mode.
.\"
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B HEVEADIR
If
.RB $ HEVEADIR
is set, its value is used as the Hevea library directory.  This
directory contains specific style files, supporting graphics files,
and some auxiliary binaries needed for the translation.
.\"
.SH EXAMPLES
.IP \(bu 2
Translate the LaTeX file
.I paper.tex
to HTML:
.IP
.EX
.RS 8
hevea paper.tex
.RE
.EE
.IP
The result goes into file
.IR paper.html .
.IP \(bu 2
Convert the LaTeX file
.I text.tex
to HTML and use
.I manual.hva
as additional source of definitions; write the result to
.IR manual.html .
.IP
.EX
.RS 8
hevea -o manual.html manual.hva text.tex
.RE
.EE
.IP \(bu 2
Generate
.I text.html
of the LaTeX source
.IR text.tex ,
re-run
.B hevea
until all labels have definite values.  Finally run
.B esponia
on the output of
.B hevea
to optimize the resulting HTML file.
.IP
.EX
.RS 8
hevea -fix -O text.tex
.RE
.EE
.\"
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR esponja (1),
.BR hacha (1),
.BR makeinfo (1).
